# 137. Single Number II
Difficulty: Medium  
Link: [https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/single-number-ii/](https://leetcode-cn.com/problems/single-number-ii/)
## Description
Given a non-empty array of integers, every element appears three times except for one, which appears exactly once. Find that single one.

Note:

Your algorithm should have a linear runtime complexity. Could you implement it without using extra memory?  
### Example 1
``` 
Input: [2,2,3,2]
Output: 3
```
### Example 2
```
Input: [0,1,0,1,0,1,99]
Output: 99
```
## Analysis
1. Hash map
**Time Complexity:**O(n)
**Space Complexity:**O(n)
2. Bitmap + Finite State Machine  
Focus on one single bit of a number, if the bit is 1 and the number appears n times, the bit is the sum of n 1s. In this problem, we need to build a state machine that make 3 times and 0 times equal, which means all the numbers that appear 3 times will be eliminated. After traversing all the elements, for every bit, only the number which appears only once will remain. The state machine is: 00, 01, 10, which should be stored in two bitmaps.  
*Note:*If the bit is an '0', the result will also remain '0'  
Next, we need to design how to calculate and store the appearing times of the numbers in our state machine. We use two bitmaps, 'twos' and 'ones', and the we assume the current bit is n (0 or 1).  
**ones**
There are two cases that ones becomes 1: (ones = 0, twos = 0, n = 1), (ones = 1, twos = 0, n = 0)  
Thus, ones = (~ twos) & ((~ ones & n) + (ones & ~ n)) = (~ twos) & (ones ^ n)    
**twos**  
There are two cases that twos becomes 1: (ones = 1, twos = 0, n = 1), (ones = 0, twos = 1, n = 0)  
Thus, twos = (ones & ~ twos & n) + (~ ones & twos & ~ n) = (ones ^ twos) & (twos ^ n)  

So far, we finish designing the mechanism of the state machine. After traversing the array, the bitmap 'ones' is the number that we want.  
**Time Complexity:**O(n)  
**Space Complexity:**O(1)

## Solution
```
class Solution {
public:
    int singleNumber(vector<int>& nums) {
        int ones = 0;
        int twos = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); ++i) {
            int temp = ones;
            ones = ones ^ nums[i] & (~twos);
            twos = (temp ^ twos) & (twos ^ nums[i]);
        }
        return ones;
    }
};
```